# Shaderc Linter

This extension uses shaderc to lint and compile GLSL. The aim is to provide a nice way to edit, lint, and compile GLSL shaders targeted at Vulkan, but it may work for other purposes. It has full support for the #include directive. It also adds build commands which output SPIRV files.

You will need a copy of the glslc executable/binary, which is available pre-built in the [LunarG Vulkan SDK](https://www.lunarg.com/vulkan-sdk/), or on [github](https://github.com/google/shaderc)

Commands to Build and Build All are made available when you are editing glsl files. These commands will export the compiled SPIRV result from shadrec to a configurable directory. 'Build All' will compile and save out SPIRV for all glsl files in your workspace. By default these commands are bound to ctrl+B and ctrl+shift+B (cmd+B/cmd+shift+B on macOS).

This extension now tracks #include dependencies, so when you build a file, all files that #include that file will also be compiled.

Currently, glsl files must be named with .frag and .vert to be fully supported by this extension.

## Extension Settings

Shaderc Linter offers the following settings:

- `shaderc-lint.glslcPath`: (required) Set this to the path of the glslc executable on your system
- `shaderc-lint.glslcArgs`: Additional arguments for the glslc executable
- `shaderc-lint.shadercOutputDir`: Output directory for compiled shaders. By default .spv files will be saved alongside your glsl files.
- `shaderc-lint.buildOnSave` : Build and output SPV every time you save a file. If not enabled, you will need to use the Build command to output the compile SPIRV.
- `shaderc-lint.includeSupport`: Added support for #include. This treats linker errors generated by files with a missing entry point as a warning only. You will also need to specify defaultGLSLVersion to supress linting errors with included files.
- `shaderc-lint.defaultGLSLVersion`: Passed to glslc with -std=. Assigns the GLSL version. Overwrites #version directives, gives a warning if they don't match.
